---
layout: post
title: zeitgeist
categories: updates
---

Once every year, since the past 3 years, I have been trying to increase
my vocabulary. I read, write down some words, then forget about it.

This has changed somewhat in the last two/three months because of
[Anki](https://apps.ankiweb.net/), I have a 40 day streak in Anki which
is very impressive for me. Anki helps by not making me forget things. I
have a mixture of cards there and most of them are related to
programming.

The zeitgeist of my time seems to be the willingness to forget. What if
people were always like this? Isn't it natural to forget what you don't
use? because if you don't use it, it means it's not important. 

Well I don't want to forget about `zeitgeist`. I got this word from the
Steve Jobs biography. I keep the book by my pillow and every night I
read a chapter or two. 

Job's obsession with his products is remarkable. He has seems to be
infatuated with them, in many sense he might be delusional because he
seems to give more importance to products than to people or to people's
feelings. Do I think apple products are perfect though? No. However, my
world is shaped by apple's products and I think, it's better off because
of steve's obstinate stance regarding his products. All computers,
phones and even earphones have the same design that Apple came up with.

I never liked apple when I was younger, it seemed to go against the open
and free credo. I am thankful that there are open and free products out
there because if there weren't any, I couldn't be a developer nor
without microsoft would I have been able to afford a computer. However,
that book has put in me a respect for that company and it's all because
of that obstinate vision about getting things right and treating
technology and products like a piece of art. Am I as obsessed and
passionate about what I do? Should I be? Will that make me happier?

My last boss was obstinate too. He had a view of the world and it would
take huge effort to change it. What I found stupendous about him is his
ability to deal with people. He knew how to make a winning argument.
Even if it was something very trivial as why he used an iPhone 7 still,
he found a way to justify it and make the other person feel stupid. It's
an art.

There is also another word: volksgeist. This means "nation spirit". What
is Nepal's spirit? Eating momo and looking forward to dashain every
year, I think. Maybe it's how I view Nepal because it's the kind of
person I am and it's the kind of people who I surround myself with.
Isn't this a very pedestrian summary of Nepal's volksgeist? There's a
quote that goes

> “The real voyage of discovery consists not in seeking new landscapes,
> but in having new eyes.”

I think I need a transplant.
